.TH "fogen" "1" "03 April 2019 (v0.1.0)" "bofc.pl"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B fogen
- generates
.B C
code with configured functions to override.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.BI fogen\  -d \ [ -l ]\ [ -o ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.TP
.BI -d< file >
Path to a database file which contains information about functions that will be
overridden in generated C code.
For more information about database format, check
.B DATABASE
chapter later in this manpage.
.TP
.BI -l< file >
Path to a file with new-line separated list of functions that will be overridden
in generated C code.
This list should be a subset of
.B database
file (passed with -d).
If this is not passed, C code will be generated using all functions from
.B database
file.
So if
.B database
file contains functions "write, read, close" and
.B function_list
(-l argument) contains only "write" function in it, then code will be generated
only with overridden function "write".
This is usefull when passed
.B database
is big and you only need to override a handfull of functions and don't want
to generate big file (that will only extend compilation time).
.TP
.BI -o< name >
By default, program will generate code in files called
.B fo.c
and
.BR fo.h .
With this option you can pass your own name (without extension).
So just pass
.I bar
if you want generated files to be called
.I bar.c
and
.IR bar.h .
.SH "DATABASE FILE"
.PP
Database is simple csv file in format:
.PP
.nf
    include[;list],return-type,function-name,argument-type1[,argument-type2]
.fi
.PP
.I include\ list
is a list of all includes files that function requires for compiler to know
all argument types and declaration of function itself (to avoid implicit
declaration errors).
It's if single include file is provided multiple times,
.B fogen
will remove any superflous include.
Files should be separated with semicolon (;) character.
.PP
.I return\ type
This doesn't need much explanation, it's just return type of original function.
.PP
.I function\ name
Another self explanatory field - name of original function, no prefixes, no
suffixes, just funciton name.
.PP
.I argument\ type\ list
Comma (,) separated list of input arguments of
.I function
to override.
Obviously must be in order of original function's arguments.
.PP
Check out this small example to understand better the format
.PP
.nf
    unistd.h,int,close,int
    unistd.h,ssize_t,read,int,void *,size_t
    sys/types.h;sys/socket.h,int,bind,int,const struct sockaddr *,socklen_t
    sys/types.h;sys/socket.h,ssize_t,recv,int,void *,size_t,int
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Program will return 0 on success, and 1 on errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR fo_init (3),
.BR fo_fail (3),
.BR libfo (7).
