.TH "libfo" "7" " 5 November 2019 (v0.2.0)" "bofc.pl"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B libfo
is a tiny library that allows user to simulate errors of
.BR POSIX ,
.B libc
and
any other functions you will add.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B libfo
is a library designed to override any function (including those from
.B POSIX
and
.BR libc )
to create rquested point of failures.
Library does not required to make any changes in production code, everything
is done from test suite.
Library is designed in a way, that you generate code once and integrate it
directly into your project.
Yes, you can build shared object and install it somewhere in
.BR PATH ,
but then you won't be able to run tests on machines which does not provide
.B libfo
or that instance of
.B libfo
does not have overridden function you might need.
It's not worth it.
.SH INTEGRATING LIBFO IN YOUR PROJECT
.PP
First (and optionally) you might want to create file with all functions you
might want to create point of failure for.
Functions should be separated by newline like this
.PP
.nf
    $ cat flist
    write
    read
    socket
.fi
.PP
Next you need to generate
.B fo.c
and
.B fo.h
that will be incuded in your project.
Check
.BR fogen (1)
program for details on how to generate those files.
.PP
Copy generated files
.B fo.c
and
.B fo.h
somewhere to your testing directory and configure your build system to create
shared object from
.BR fo.c .
This step is important, library needs to be built separately and as shared
object for everything to work.
.B libfo.so
could be compiled with:
.PP
.nf
    $ gcc -fPIC -c fo.c -o fo.o
    $ gcc -shared -fPIC -Wl,-soname,libfo.so.1 -o libfo.so fo.o -lc
.fi
.PP
Or if you want to run functional tests run from shell or python, and have
no way of adding
.BR fo_fail (3)
calls you might want to compile library with linked `-init' option:
.PP
.nf
    $ gcc -fPIC -c fo.c -o fo.o
    $ gcc -shared -fPIC -Wl,-soname,libfo.so.1 \\
        -Wl,-init,fo_init -o libfo.so fo.o -lc
.fi
.PP
and
.B LIBFO_INIT_FILE
envvar set to initialize and set failing points from file.
Refer to
.BR fo_init (3)
for more information how to do it.
.PP
Install some point of failures with
.BR fo_fail (3)
and write some test code with it.
.PP
When you run your test program, remember to run it with
.B LD_PRELOAD=libfo.so
(path may vary) like
.PP
.nf
    $ LD_PRELOAD=./libfo.so test-program
.fi
.PP
so all functions are overridden by
.BR libfo .
.PP
You might want to take a look at "tst" directory in
.B libfo
sources, test case is super small and easy (there really isn't much to test)
to understand how to run tests with
.BR libfo .
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR fogen (1),
.BR fo_init (3),
.BR fo_fail (3).
